Network Security

~~~~~~~~~~~
07-Feb-2019
~~~~~~~~~~~
Objectives:
    Define Malware
    List different types of malware
    identify payloads of malware
    describe the types of psychological social engineering attacks
    explain physical social engineering attacks
    
Attacks using malware
    Enters without knowledge or consent
    Can be malicious or just annoying
    "Payload": the offending script which causes the malware to be performed
    
    Can be classified by using primary trait, or goal:
        Circulation:            Spread rapidly
        Infection:              how it embeds
        Concealment:            avoid detection
        Payload capability:     the end result is the most invested aspect
        
    Circulation:
        Main types: Viruses and Worms
        
        Virus:
            Computer virus: code which reproduces itself many times on the computer
            Program Virus:  Stored in .exe
            Macro:          Series of instructions groups as a single command
            
            Most go to great lengths to avoid detection (virus armoring)
                Appender infection:     puts code at the very end of program, inserts jump to bottom command
                    Not particularly armored
                Swiss Cheese infection: viruses inject themselves into executable code along with decrypting steps
                    code is scrambled to make more difficult to detect
                Split infection:        Virus Code itself is split up across the host code 
                    different strengths to Swiss Cheese.
            
            Perform two actions:
                unload payload, reproduce itself only within the host computer
                Needs human interaction to spread.
                
        Worm:
            Uses computer network to replicate
                Sends copies of itself to other systems across the network.
            Exploits vulnerabilities in applications used by the network.
            Automatically spreads itself within the system across the 
            
    Infection:
    
        Trojan:
            contains hidden code contained within a differently advertised program
            (Like McAfee.)
            Special Type:
                RAT (Remote access Trojan) allows access to hacker from remote location
                
        Ransom ware:
            locks up computer to hold computer hostage until ransom is paid
            Advice is to not pay the ransom: emboldens the hackers and you may not even get your data back.
            Stresses the importance of Back-ups!
            
        Crypto-malware
            More malicious form of ransom ware which encrypts all files on a device so that none can be opened
            Once infected:
                connects to the threat actor's Command and Control (C&C) server to receive keys for encrypting and decrypting
                The decrypting key is sent once the ransom is paid
                
    Concealment:
        
        Rootkits:
            hides itself by altering the traces of log-ins records, log entries.
            
            
    Payload Capabilities
        Contains the destructive software
        Primarily to collect data, delete data, modify system security settings, and launch attacks.
        
        Collect data:
            Spyware:    collects info without consent
            Keylogger:  logs keystrokes to scan for credit card numbers, passwords, other credentials
                        Can be a small hardware device or software devices
                            Software does not require physical access
            Adware:     Delivers ad content at unexpected and unwanted times, typically banners and pop ups
            
        Delete data:
            Logic Bomb: code that lies dormant until it is triggered by a certain logic event, like a certain date
                        Difficult to detect, often found in files which are not routinely scanned.
                        
        Modify settings:
            Backdoors are created to let hacker return later easier
            
        Launch Attacks:
            Botnets: Spam, Spreading Malware, Manipulating online polls, Denying services at whim of Bot Herder.
            
Social Engineering Attacks
    means of gathering information for an attack relying on the weakness of humans.
    
    Psychological Approaches
        goal is to persuade victim to provide information or take action
        In-person techniques:
            provide a reason
            project confidence
            use evasion and diversion
            make them laugh
        Psychological approaches often involve:
            impersonation, phishing, spam, hoaxes, and watering hole attacks.
            
        Impersonation:
            help desk support technician, example.
            
        Phishing:
            sending email claiming to be from legitimate source
            tries to trick user into giving private info
            emails and fake websites difficult to distinguish from legitimate ones
            Variations:
                spear phishing: targets specific users
                whaling:        targets the "big fish"
                Vishing:        instead of email, uses phone, voice phishing
            97% of all attacks start with phishing
            
        Spam:
            quantity over quality.
            
        Hoaxes:
            false warning, usually disguised as IT
            Tries to get victims to change configuration settings on your PC.
            
        Watering Hole attacks
            directed towards small groups of individuals visiting a common website.
            
    Physical Procedures
        Tailgating:         Following someone closely to get into a secured door, watching over shoulder
        Dumpster Diving:    digging through trash to find personal info
        
        
~~~~~~~~~~~