Risk Mitigation

~~~~~~~~~~~
25-Apr-2019
~~~~~~~~~~~
Managing Risk
    Risk
        a situation that involves exposure to danger
    Knowing what threats are faced, and assessing these in some way (i.e. monetarily) is imperative
    
Threat assessment
    process of examining seriousness and likelihood of potential threats
    Three categories:
        Environmental
        Man-made
        Internal vs. external
    determine relative worth of at-risk assets
    
Risk assessment
    Testing
        technology assets should be tested to identify vulnerabilities
        Obtrusive vs non-obtrusive, penetration testing ("pentest"-ing)
    Change Management
        track changes all involving information systems
            system architecture, file classification, etc.
        Allows for state reversion in event of issue
        CMT (Change management Team)
            Duties:
                review changes, ensure risk and impact understood, communicate impact of changes to employees.
                
    Privilege Management
        Privilege: access level over an object, i.e. file
        Management: assign + revoke these privileges.
        
    Incident Management
        Incident response
            components required to identify, analyze and contain an incident,
        ""    "" handling
            planning, coordination, communications, and planning functions needed to resolve incident
        ""    "" management
            framework and functions required to enable these responses
    
    Risk Calculation
        Qualify vs. Quantify risk?
            hard to quantify things like a tornado
        Qualitative:
            uses educated guess based on observation (i.e. 1-10 scale)
        Quantitative:
            creates hard numbers associated with the risk of an element in a system by using historical data
            divided into likelihood of a risk and the impact of risk being faced.
            
        Risk likelihood:
            many different ways to come up with these numbers
            
Reducing Risk
    Use Control Types
        
    Distribution Allocation
        refers to "spreading" the risk
        Ways to distribute include:
            Transference -      makes a third party responsible for the risk
            Risk avoidance -    involves identifying the risk and making the decision to not engage in the activity.
            Mitigation -        the attempt to address the risk by making it less serious.
            
    Implementing technology
        risk is often introduced through human error
        implementing automated technology can reduce these risks
    
    Security Policies
        Definition of Policy:
            agreement of action
        Security Policy:
            written document that states how an organization plans to protect the company's information technology assets
            outlines the protections offered and guaranteed, and risked.
            
        Functions of Security Policy:
            overall intention and direction,
            details specific risks and contingencies.
            
        Many different types of security policies, all often "boilerplate" sections and entire other policies as subsections and subpolicies
            supposed to read them all (ha)
            
        Types of Security Policies
            Acceptable Use Policy (AUP)
                what you can and cannot do on company machines
            Personal Email Policy
                can or cannot access personal email addresses
            Social Media Policy
                increases security, questionable results on productivity as of late
        Awareness and Training
            key defense in information security:
                providing security awareness and training to users (sometimes called continuing education)
            All users need continuous training in the new security defenses and be reminded of company security policies and procedures
            Three learning styles
                visual
                auditory
                kinesthetic
            training styles impact how people learn
                role-based training
                    involves specialized training that is customized to the specific role that an employee holds in the organization
        