You will be required to post your initial response (200-word min) and reply to two students. "I agree" will not count towards a response. Create a new thread when you initially respond and replies will be done under each students response. 

Make an argument for and against password management applications. Then, come to a final decision which you would suggest to a client - if you would suggest it at all. Do you prefer one product over another? Browser vs stand-alone? What about just a piece of paper in your home/office? Is it realistic to assume people can remember all passwords? 



Make an argument for and against password management applications. Then, come to a final decision which you would suggest to a client - if you would suggest it at all. 
It is not uncommon for computer and internet users to have accounts for multitudes of services and websites, and it can be very difficult for most users to remember and maintain unique, secure passwords for each. This can lead to insecure practices like using obvious or repeated passwords. One alternative that some users opt for is a password management application. In this way, they only need to remember one user name and password, while the application either remembers the user's passwords or automatically generates secure passwords for the user. Arguments against the use of password managers liken it to "putting all of your eggs in one basket": all it would take is the password manager account being infiltrated for a threat actor to gain access to all of a user's credentials. Additionally, the application's data servers become higher priority targets for larger scale threat actors for the same reason, and users have to trust the security of the company responsible for the application to keep their data safe. Despite this, I would still suggest password manager applications. They are the most secure way to ensure the safety and integrity of your credentials.

Do you prefer one product over another? 
Research from the consumer is recommended, but a service that matches the buyer's price point, offers secure password generation, and has a good record of data security would be best. One I would recommend is Dashlane: it has free and premium price options, offers password generation, and has a good track record for breach avoidance, along with a publicly shared protocol for the event of a data breach.

Browser vs stand-alone? 
Browser password managers, while convenient and free of charge, are much less secure than stand-alone applications. They do not offer password generation and are often set up so that anyone with physical access to your computer can open your web browser and access your accounts. In addition, browsers are more vulnerable than stand alone applications because they are not designed specifically to protect passwords, and their greater amount of functionality means a higher chance of breaches.

What about just a piece of paper in your home/office? 
This is not a great idea: while you may not have many people coming through your home, all it takes is one person happening to see it for your credentials to be compromised.

Is it realistic to assume people can remember all passwords? 
In many cases, it is not realistic to assume that the average user can remember all of their passwords.