Final Project - First Meet Planning

...........
05-Mar-2019
...........
What I need to have done before I get to GenSpace:
    Introduction First Draft
    Outline
    Plans for 5 items under each of the 6 main topics
    
Things to Bring to GenSpace:
    Notepad
    Pencil
    Laptop
    Charger
    Water
    
To Dos once I get to GenSpace:
    General:
        Keep eye out for "Top-Five List"
        Take consistent notes as I work through each planned item
        Be ready to come up with new ideas to look into
        
    Review confidentiality assurance:
        "The information contained within this report is considered proprietary and confidential to the client organization. 
        Inappropriate and unauthorized disclosure of this report or portions of it could result in significant damage or loss to the client organization. 
        This report should be distributed to individuals on a Need-to-Know basis only. 
        Paper copies should be locked up when not in use. 
        Electronic copies should be stored off line and protected appropriately."
        
    Run through each planned topic:
        Network/Wireless Security
            1.  Does wi-fi have password?
            2.  What sort of network equipment is used?
            3.  How many devices are permanently connected to the network?
            4.  Does the network possess any hardware or software firewall?
            5.  Are their protocols for planned network maintenance?
            
        System (PC/Server) Security
            1.  How is it decided whether a device can connect to the network?
            2.  What software, e.g. firewalls, is used to protect individual devices?
            3.  How often do common devices undergo software updates?
            4.  What is the oldest device connected to the network?
            5.  How many devices are permanently connected to the wi-fi?
            
        Backups/Disaster Recovery
            1.  How is vital data stored on site?
            2.  Is any backup software used?
            3.  How often is data backed up?
            4.  Are there off site backup locations?
            5.  How often are off site backups updated?
            
        Physical Security
            1.  Where is router stored, and how is it protected?
            2.  Where are any permanently wi-fi connected devices stored, and how are they protected?
            3.  Who has access to these locations?
            4.  Are there any publicly accessible ethernet ports?
            5.  How old are the locks on the building?
            
        AAA (Authorization/Authentication/Accounting)
            1.  In what ways can users access the network?
            2.  How are users of the network identified and categorized?
            3.  What sorts of privileges do different users have?
            4.  How is user activity tracked and monitored?
            5.  Is any AAA software being used for the network?
            
        User Education
            1.  Is there a standard procedure to follow when users transfer data over network?
            2.  Do users understand common sources of threat risks?
            3.  Are users encouraged to exercise secure data management practices?
            4.  Has there been a history of previous data leaks at this network?
            5.  What is the contingency plan for handling a data leak?
            
            
    For each, record:
        Category,
        Topic,
        Action